T.B. appears to be experiencing a mild skin reaction and should be reassured that it is common for the skin to appear erythematous for up to 24 to 48 hours after the patch is removed.

T.B. can apply topical hydrocortisone cream (0.5% or 1%) or triamcinolone cream (0.5%), or she can take an oral antihistamine for symptomatic treatment .

Because the rash on her left arm has nearly resolved , it is reasonable for T.B. to continue using the nicotine transdermal patch provided that the erythema is not too bothersome .

The primary advantage of the transdermal nicotine patch compared with other NRT formulations is that the patch is easy to use and conceal, releases a continuous dose of nicotine througout the day, and requires administration only QD.

Disadvantages of the patch include a high incidence of skin irritation associated with the patch adhesives and the inability to acutely adjust the dose of nicotine to alleviate symptoms of withdrawal .

Finally, patients with underlying dermatologic conditions (e.g., psoriasis, eczema, atopic dermatitis) should not use the patch because they are more likely to experience skin irritation.

Other less common side effects associated with the transdermal nicotine patch include vivid or abnormal dreams, insomnia, and headache. Sleep disturbances likely result from nocturnal nicotine absorption .
Patients experiencing troublesome sleep disturbances should be instructed to remove the patch before
bedtime and apply a new patch as soon as possible after waking the following morning.

The clinician should also provide behavioral counseling support by asking T.B. about the current quit attempt .
Appropriate issues to address include her confidence in remaining tobacco free, situations in which she has been tempted to smoke and potential triggers for relapse, nicotine withdrawal symptoms, her social support system for quitting, and any other questions or concerns she might have. It is reasonable to review potential coping strategies (behavioral and cognitive;

The clinician should commend T.B. for her decision to quit, congratulate her for remaining free of cigarettes for 48 hours, and reassure her that skin irritation is a common, yet generally manageable, complication with the nicotine patch.
